---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Chapter 4
date: 2020-05-08T20:16:43.325Z
description: To Tuakau
---
Two weeks have passed and I have started to find my way around. The library, such as it is, is located on the second floor of the main building, though it is known locally as the first floor as the bottom floor is known as the ground floor. Electronic access to journals and e-books is pretty good but the absence of significant numbers of physical volumes, while understandable in a new university, feels like a let down. I am getting on with preparing my two courses for the first semester; the academic year follows the calendar year in the Southern Hemisphere. Aroha has invited me for the weekend to her house in the country in a place called ‘Tuakau’, south of Auckland. Aroha often stays with her sister near the university during the week, but the country place is the family home.



I meet Aroha at 4 pm on Friday to drive me down to Tuakau. She will bring me back on Sunday evening. There is a fair bit of traffic but eventually we work our way out of the city and into some rolling country with some small scale farming in evidence. Aroha seems to uncoil the further we go. “Let me tell you about my whanau. I have three children all living at home,” she tells me, “Hemi, my eldest son, who is 30, Ngahuia who is 28 and her daughter Roimata, who is 7, and Mikaere, my youngest son, who is 22. My own mother, Kuini, also lives there. It was where I grew up.” “You must have a big house,” I say. “Not really, but there is a sleep-out, where Ngahuia and Roimata live; we added a bathroom last year, and Mikaere lives in the garage.” This is going to be interesting. We pull off the road into a rough driveway and in the overgrown garden is an elegant old weatherboard house in need of paint with an attractive porch whose corrugated iron roof curves over at the front. There is a newer double garage which, in place of garage doors, has a new front panel with a sliding glass door. I catch sight of another building at the back which must be Ngahuia and Roimata’s sleep out. Several cars of different ages are parked on the gravel.



Chickens are scratching and pecking around the garden. As we get out of the car a large Great Dane bounds up and leaps up at Aroha. She says, “Down,” but then he turns his attention to me. Having had warning, I brace myself and find this huge dog has placed its front paws on my shoulders and, after a moment’s careful reflection, gives my face a big lick. I manage to grab his paws and persuade him to get down. “That is Tane Paraone, Mr. Brown.” “I think I have been welcomed,” I say. Aroha apologises, “I’m sorry, he is a little forward.” “He must know I am a Finn.”



Aroha shows me into a comfortable bedroom with an old double bed. It contains lots of personal items including academic books and I realise it must be her room. I apologize for taking her room, but she says she has a bed in her office. Aroha and her mother start making dinner and Aroha suggests I could take a bath if I would like to fill in the time. Maybe the bathroom will be busy later so I follow the suggestion. “And do close the door firmly!” I wonder what that is about. There isn’t a lock on the door but, of course, I do close it. There isn’t a shower but there is an old claw-footed cast iron bath. The hot water is plentiful and I add some bubble bath. I settle in for a relaxing soak when suddenly the door bursts open and Tane Paraone leaps into the room and takes a flying leap and lands on top of me. I let out a huge scream, which I regret. Tane Paraone is having the time of his life. A strong looking young man, whom I take to be Hemi, rushes in laughing, but apologizes, and hauls Tane Paraone off me. The bubbles were scattered by Tane Paraone and Hemi quickly eyes me up. What is he thinking? “What, no breasts?” But he gives me a cheeky grin and shepherds Tane Paraone out of the room and closes the door behind them. I don’t linger and get dried and dressed. When I go into the kitchen Aroha hands me a glass of red wine and says, “I am sorry you had to share your bath.” “That’s alright, it just took me by surprise. I expect he needed it more than I did.”



Kuini and Hemi are in the kitchen along with Aroha. Hemi is busy laying the table in the kitchen. Aroha introduces me to Kuini, who doesn’t say much. Aroha then says, “Of course you have met Hemi.” “Yes, thank you for rescuing me. I am sorry to give such a scream, but I did need help.” Hemi just smiles. Ngahuia and little Roimata then come in. Ngahuia is cheerful and asks how I am settling into New Zealand. But it is Roimata who is most interested in me. She asks where I come from? “Finland.” “Are you an Eskimo?” “No, but in the northern part of Finland and nearby countries there is a people called the ‘Sami’, a little like Eskimos, (I don’t go into the difficulties with that word) who herd reindeer.” “Oh are reindeer real? I thought they were just part of silly Father Christmas stories.” “Oh yes, reindeer are real, but there aren’t as many as there used to be.” “Is that because of colonization?” Clever one, this little girl. “That is part of it.”



Roimata insists on sitting next to me, but first Aroha sends her out to fetch Mikaere. When he arrives we all cram round the kitchen table. Aroha is at one end and Kuini is at the other. I am at Aroha’s right hand and Roimata squeezes in between me and her mother, Ngahuia. Mikaere sits opposite me. He seems shy. And next to him, at Kuini’s right, is Hemi. I am pleased that, for the moment, I am not directly across from Hemi. Hemi is designated to give the karakia kai, which ends with ‘Amene’. It is an interesting meal, with lots of chat about this and that, interspersed with Roimata interrogating me. They give Hemi a hard time for us having to squeeze around the kitchen table. I had noticed that there was a larger dining table in what would be a dining area leading into the living room, but that table is covered with an old sheet and has parts of what must be some kind of engine scattered over it. Hemi tells me he is rebuilding a 1960’s Lambretta scooter. I think this is a highly unusual family. I feel in a way out of place but still embraced by this extended family. I have not had such a family experience for a long time.



Chapter 5



Hemi and Moana



Even though it is early, everyone gets ready for bed. There is a bit of a wait for the bathroom but I am in bed soon after 10 pm. I look at emails and texts on my phone for a while, but there is nothing of great interest. I recall the events of the day, in particular Tane Paraone’s arrival in my bath, and Hemi pulling him off my naked body. I wonder if I can go to sleep if I put out the light. There is a very gentle, almost conspiratorial, knock on my door. “Yes, come in,” I say softly. Hemi comes in with a secretive smile. He is wearing ageing but conservative pyjamas, a good match for my old white cotton nightdress. “I can’t sleep,” he says. “Oh you poor boy,” I say ironically but, softening, add “I can’t either.” He sits on the edge of my bed in a confident, casual way and starts talking softly about his life and rather intermittent university study and then moves on to how pleased he is to meet me. Oh, I see where this is going.



Looking back I cannot imagine what came over me. He clearly had one thing on his mind. It turned out he had a condom in his pyjama pocket. Well, strictly, he had two. I think my quip that a girl like me isn’t used to a boy arriving with only two condoms could reasonably be taken as a form of consent. But consent I certainly did. When he took off his pyjama shirt, I just couldn’t take my hands off his strong arms and exercise hardened pecs. I helped him get the bottom half off. I hadn’t been with a man for more than ten years but I suddenly felt, I can see the point of this after all. “You know I think you are my tane paraone,” I said “Yes and you are my little Eskimo.”



It is morning. I am awakened by a knock on the door. It isn’t Hemi; he is beside me. Oh dear. Hemi clearly is already awake and answers calmly, “Kuhu mai, whaia.” Aroha comes in with two cups of tea on a small wooden tray. “You weren’t in your room, so I thought I would find you here,” she says to Hemi. “I am so sorry,” I say. “Don’t be, I know my son.” She leaves us with a resigned frown towards Hemi. I say, “I don’t know what to do.” “Just have your tea,” he says. reassuringly.This is absolutely ridiculous. I came over here with every intention of being totally professional, leaving any hint of scandal behind me, and what do I do? I jump into bed with the son of the Dean of Arts, in her very own house. OK, strictly he jumped into bed with me but where was the mature older woman saying, “No this isn’t a good idea.” I am going to need to have a frank discussion with Aroha. On the surface she appears not to blame me, but what can she really think of me?



Breakfast is a bit disorganised and Aroha disappears quickly into her office and is on the phone. Hemi starts tinkering with his Lambretta engine. So he doesn’t disappear but isn’t seeking attention. Ngahuia and Roimata are last to finish breakfast and offer to show me their sleepout. It is really quite small but cosy. There is a bedroom which has room for a small double bed for Ngahuia and a single bed for Roimata with just a small gap between. The living area has an old two person sofa and an easy chair opposite a new small kitchen. This backs on to the new bathroom. Roimata makes sure I am sitting next to her and asks me lots of questions about Finland. She wants to know when I learned English and I explain that foreign languages are important in Finnish schools and that Swedish is an official language as well as Finnish but English is very popular and I started learning it when I was 9. She had thought I had come straight from Finland to New Zealand and seems disappointed that I had lived in America for 10 years. “Was it really scary? Did people carry guns the whole time?” “Not in the part of the country where I was living.” Ngahuia is very happy to let Roimata take care of me and gets on with sorting out some clothes in the bedroom. But then she makes us a very nice cup of coffee with a new espresso machine that occupies precious bench space in the kitchen area. Roimata has a hot chocolate.



A little later, I wander back to the main house. Hemi isn’t around, it seems, for which I am very grateful. I feel anxious about the discussion I need to have with Aroha. But a distraction occurs. Someone lets themselves in. It is a tall, beautiful, young, Maori woman with a tattoo on her chin. She is carrying an overnight bag. Aroha must have heard something, for she emerges from her office and says, “Kia ora, Moana. I thought we weren’t going to see you until next week.” They hug. “My workshop finished a little early and I thought I would rush back to Hemi.” Now this is a development. Aroha introduces us, describing Moana as Hemi’s girlfriend. She sits next to me on a sofa. “Have you met Hemi? Has he been looking after you?” Awkward. “Certainly. Second only to Roimata.” As if on cue, Roimata appears and runs over and squeezes between us. For once, she says absolutely nothing but looks blissfully happy. Moana has a charm and quiet confidence that is striking. She is also absolutely gorgeous. Her skeleton is probably a little like mine, but it is covered with flesh, young, smooth, golden flesh. Her halter top dress shows her beautiful shoulders and elegant arms. She puts one of those arms around Roimata. Moana catches me staring at her, but I cover the situation by asking her about her tattoo. “We call it a ‘moko’. It shows my connection with my whakapapa, my ancestors.” I am so jealous, jealous of Moana’s wonderful body and jealous of Hemi for having such a girl-friend. She tells me she teaches kapa haka, Maori performance art, and has just come back from Rotorua.